DIP 22: Deterministic InstantSend (#98)
dashpay/dips: deterministic-instantsend.md

verifiable by recent quorums because the InstantSend lock does not include any block or time based
information. In Dash Platform InstantSend Locks are used to add credit to Identities as they provide
input finality. When blocks are replayed on the Platform Chain, all State Transitions need to be
re-validated and it is possible that InstantSend signatures will need to be rechecked. However, to
recheck them one needs to know the quorum that signed them. In this DIP we will provide a mechanism
to that end.

## Previous work

* [DIP-0006: Long-Living Masternode Quorums](https://github.com/dashpay/dips/blob/master/dip-0006.md)
* [DIP-0007: LLMQ Signing Requests / Sessions](https://github.com/dashpay/dips/blob/master/dip-0007.md)
* [DIP-0010: LLMQ InstantSend](https://github.com/dashpay/dips/blob/master/dip-0010.md)

## Versioning of ISLock messages

Since `islock` messages were never versioned, a new `ISDLOCK` message will be created and the
`islock` message will be deprecated. ISD stands for InstantSend Deterministic. The version of the
`ISDLOCK` used in this document will be `1`. We will still refer to `islock` messages, even though
the message name has been changed.

> 

Author: ```suggestion
```

the message name has been changed.

The `messageHash` for `islock` messages should now be calculated as `SHA256(version, txHash).`

## QuorumHash vs CycleHash

The naive approach to fixing this problem would be to include the `quorumHash` in the `islock`
message. An `islock` would then be easily verifiable since the quorum that signed it would always be
known. The drawback of this approach is that any quorum could sign any `islock` even if it were not
responsible to do so for that quorum cycle.

A quorum cycle begins at a `quorumBlock` (as per
[DIP-0006](https://github.com/dashpay/dips/blob/master/dip-0006.md#parametersvariables-of-a-llmq-and-dkg))
and lasts for a number of blocks that is equal to the `quorumDkgInterval`. During this time the set
of valid quorums are not modified for a given `quorumType`. If the `quorumDkgInterval` is set to 24
blocks then from block 100 to block 124 quorums of that type stay the same. During this period the
quorum that is in charge of signing a specific `islock` will also always be the same. CycleHash is
the `blockHash` of the first block in a cycle.

By adding the `cycleHash` to the `islock` message, any node can follow the steps required to

> determine the appropriate `quorumHash` and verify the signature.

Author: ```suggestion
determine the appropriate `quorumHash`. And add something else here...
```

`ISDLOCK` used in this document will be `1`. We will still refer to `islock` messages, even though
the message name has been changed.

The `messageHash` for `islock` messages should now be calculated as `SHA256(version, txHash).`

## QuorumHash vs CycleHash

The naive approach to fixing this problem would be to include the `quorumHash` in the `islock`
message. An `islock` would then be easily verifiable since the quorum that signed it would always be
known. The drawback of this approach is that any quorum could sign any `islock` even if it were not
responsible to do so for that quorum cycle.

A quorum cycle begins at a `quorumBlock` (as per
[DIP-0006](https://github.com/dashpay/dips/blob/master/dip-0006.md#parametersvariables-of-a-llmq-and-dkg))
and lasts for a number of blocks that is equal to the `quorumDkgInterval`. During this time the set
of valid quorums are not modified for a given `quorumType`. If the `quorumDkgInterval` is set to 24
blocks then from block 100 to block 124 quorums of that type stay the same. During this period the
quorum that is in charge of signing a specific `islock` will also always be the same. CycleHash is

> the `blockHash` of the first block in a cycle.

Author: Is this the agreed upon definition for cycle hash? There was previously some discussion regarding exactly which block's hash should be used. @QuantumExplorer @UdjinM6

the creation of two `islock` messages, distinct only by the fact that their cycle hash is different.

The new message has the following structure (fields in bold are not present in the previously used
`islock` message):

| Field | Type | Size | Description |
|-|-|-|-|
| **version** | uint8 | 1 |  The version of the islock message |
| inputCount | compactSize uint | 1 - 9 | Number of inputs in the transaction |
| inputs | COutpoint[] | `inputCount` * 36 | Inputs of the transaction. COutpoint is a uint256 (hash of previous transaction) and a uint32 (output index) |
| txid | uint256 | 32 | Transaction id (hash of the transaction) |
| **cycleHash** | uint256 | 32 | Block hash of first block of the cycle in which the quorum signing this `islock` is active |
| sig | BLSSig | 96 | Recovered signature from the signing request/session |

### **Choosing the active LLMQ to perform signing**

Choosing the active LLMQ to perform signing should follow the same steps as defined in [DIP-0007 -
Choosing the active LLMQ to perform
signing](https://github.com/dashpay/dips/blob/master/dip-0007.md#choosing-the-active-llmq-to-perform-signing).

> | Field | Type | Size | Description |

Author: @QuantumExplorer Is this table supposed to be here? I'm not sure I understand its purpose.

Author: Removed after talking with Pasta
